# 1 – Introduction 

## 1.1 – Overview and Justification 

When you enter a hospital, do you ever pause and think, “where do I go now” ?. It’s a common problem nowadays and despite the significant technological progress at its pace, the DRI building infrastructure is outdated, which led to the dissatisfaction of many onsite visitors and patients because they are getting lost due to it being hard to navigate through. Thus, resulting in diverting hospital resources from their primary mission of delivering quality care to patients. Therefore, a web app with an intelligent map called the DRI indoor navigation that is easily updatable with audio and visual effects was proposed, where its main purpose is to show and help viewers get through the DRI building from point A to point B on the map efficiently with no human-interaction. In this report, the project scope and system description were presented to identify the project boundaries such as purpose and vision, where a detailed overview of the system was given with research of other systems. In addition, the solution requirements were split into three sections. Firstly, functional requirements that describes the system functions and models such as a map with GUI for the user to understand where the map is guiding him, AI to process user input, user inputting audio data and system admin login and editing locations. Secondly, Non-functional requirements to identify the quality of the system such as platform availability (available on IOS  & android), handling user location data to ensure security, loading speed of the map to ensure high performance and handling a large amount of user simultaneously. Thirdly, risk and issues that the system will face. Finally, the project development was separated into two section Development approach that discusses the SDLC approach and project schedule, which identifies the deadlines for each key aspect of the project. 

This document is here to descrive the project scope and the descriptions of the system that we will implement so that we as student developers and the DRI hospital itself
can reach an understanding of what we will implement and how our understanding can be developed to ensure that the project meets the client's needs. We will discuss the 
requirements of the software and how we will approach development. Section 2 of this document will focus on the requirements of the software and section 3 will cover 
our development approach.  

## 1.2 – Project Scope 

 In this project, two main problems were encountered, which are the physical site being incredibly complicated to navigate due to it being made up from buildings dating back over a century to modern buildings and since, the start of COVID many features, and functions of the hospital have changes in locations to accommodate COVID treatment. Therefore, the DRI indoor navigation was presented, to help the users such as the patients, employees, onsite visitors navigate through mazes of the DRI building and across rooms, upstairs, downstairs and in consideration of disabilities by taking the shortest path and also allowing the IBM team to update it easily without disturbing them. Furthermore, the DRI indoor navigation will help the DRI hospital in utilizing its resources since people with disabilities won’t be accompanied by nurses due to it providing the best route to them, while also resolving the concerns of lost patients and onsite visitors. In addition, the DRI hospital doesn’t need to inform the patients, employees, and onsite visitors of its room changes due to it being available immediately on the virtual map. Thus, resulting in the IBM team getting people where they need to go saves time and resources, keeps healthcare provider schedule in check, and improves patient satisfaction. In other words, the DRI indoor navigation purpose is to make the visit to the DRI hospital more friendly in such a way that the patients, visitors, and employees can go everywhere effortlessly. In the future, the DRI can build upon our software in whichever ways they see fit. We want to implement a database to store data for the building which will help our pathfinding algorithm, however this can be built upon by the DRI to store important room data such as appointments or room availability. They may also want to change parts of the interface to make it more accessible to users (i.e. a high contrast mode to help the visually impared use the software). Anything beyond the map and how the user will interact with it are out of the scope of the project, however the DRI may want to explore their options with our software to continue to maintain and build from the work that we do.
 
## 1.3 - System Description 

In this project, the DRI indoor navigation was designed as a responsive web app with audio and visual effects. The audio effect is constructed using AI that helps the users communicate with the web app map to specify their destination based on their needs, where the audio by the user is taken as the input and the output is the directions given by A* algorithm also known as the best-first search since, it’s an informed search algorithm that is formulated in terms of weighted graphs starting from a specific starting node of a graph, it aims to find a path to the given goal node having the smallest cost. Moreover, the visual effect was implemented so that the user can visualise his journey and drop the pin on the room he is heading to with audio assistance for directions. In addition, the DRI indoor navigation is easily updatable while functioning (direction features) through storing the graph data in a database and updating it with SQL including creating, removing, and renaming the buildings, where the admin (IBM Team) only accesses it and gets the new data with an HTML form. The web app consists of a frontend and a backend page, where the fronted page is designed using React Native that shows a map of the DRI building provided by the IBM team with a pin to the user’s location and an input bar for the user to either type or state his new destination using the audio feature and visualize his path on the map with directions assistance. In the backend page A* algorithm is used to connect the rooms in the building as nodes, where they are extracted from the IBM API’s using Python Flask and the IBM enterprise AI suite is used to help the machine learn from past experiences, which makes it functional while updating the data of the map. As we move forward, and become more reliant on technology, old buildings such as hospitals will have to come up to speed too. Virtual mapping will continue to revolutionise the way we interact with our indoor environments like GPS did for the outdoor world. Since, mapping technology can create accurate and up to date real-world experience maps of highly complex and often unconnected environments. Thus, resulting in the NHS hospitals investing in its software by implementing BuzzStreets indoor navigation app, where it uses Bluetooth low energy beacons, WI-FI signals, and Earth’s magnetic field to pinpoint a person’s location. In addition, it includes a communication system for patients and doctors, and the option to schedule appointments, receiving medical scans and prescriptions, heat maps and appointment reminders. Furthermore, research was made by consultancy firm Deloitte Digital found more than 85% of patients ask for directions when they go to a hospital or other public health facility, and 30% of first-time visitors get lost, which means implementing such a system would save time and money by helping visitors get to appointments on time and staff spend less time giving directions. 
